Japan's government has finalized when it will begin releasing treated and diluted water from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant into the ocean. The plan sets into motion as soon as Thursday.

Prime Minister Kishida Fumio made the announcement while meeting with Cabinet members on Tuesday.

He said, "The release is expected on Thursday, as long as weather and sea conditions don't cause any issues. We will take responsibility until the discharge of the treated water is completed, no matter how long it takes, for the next several decades."

It's received a mixed reception in Fukushima. A resident said, "It's difficult to feel safe, from an emotional standpoint."

Another resident said, "The water will keep accumulating. We have to deal with it somehow, so if the safety standards are solid and there's no risk, I think we have no choice."

Members of the local fishing industry say they're concerned how the release will impact them. Fish merchant Suzuki Kouji said, "I don't know what to do. I believe there will be reputational damage, so I think we have to find out how much we can reduce its impact."

The government says the release is necessary to decommission the plant, which suffered a triple meltdown in the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.

Since then, rain and groundwater has mixed with the water used to cool molten fuel at the Fukushima Daiichi plant.

The water is treated to remove most radioactive material, but still contains tritium.

The government plans to dilute the water to reduce tritium levels to about one-seventh of the World Health Organization's guidelines for drinking water.

Last month, the International Atomic Energy Agency released a report saying Japan's water release plan is consistent with international safety standards.

The plant's operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, has promised to take ownership of the impacts caused by the release.

TEPCO President Kobayakawa Tomoaki said, "We will take thorough measures against harmful rumors more than anything else. Regardless, in the event of reputational damage, we would ensure compensation would be paid swiftly."

Japan's government has also vowed to work hard to ensure public safety and prevent reputational damage to businesses.
